feat(rn): Add UI Instrumentation (#6437)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/user-interaction-instrumentation.mdx

---
title: User Interaction Instrumentation
sidebar_order: 20
sdk: sentry.javascript.react-native

description: "Learn what kinds of user interactions may be captured"
---

> The UI instrumentation captures transactions and adds breadcrumbs for touch interactions. Gesture support using React Native Gesture Handler is also available with the `sentryTraceGesture` wrapper. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI instrumentation captures transactions and adds breadcrumbs for touch interactions. Gesture support using React Native Gesture Handler, is also available with the `sentryTraceGesture` wrapper. 
```

## Touch Events

Transaction names are composed from a combination of displayed screen names, (for example, `LoginScreen`), and the labels of the element users interacted with, (for example, `login_button`).

<Note>

> Capturing UI transactions requires that you first set up <Link to="/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#enable-routing-instrumentation">routing instrumentation</Link>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To capture UI transactions, you have to first set up <Link to="/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#enable-routing-instrumentation">routing instrumentation</Link>.
```

</Note>

> The UI instrumentation tracing is disabled by default, but you can enable it by setting the `enableUserInteractionTracing` options to `true` and wrapping your root component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 UI instrumentation tracing is disabled by default, but you can enable it by setting the `enableUserInteractionTracing` options to `true` and wrapping your root component:
```

```js
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/react-native'

Sentry.init({
  // ...
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.ReactNativeTracing({
      enableUserInteractionTracing: true,
      routingInstrumentation,
      // ...
    }),
  ],
})

const App = () => <View>Your App</View>

export default Sentry.wrap(App)
```

The label by which UI elements are identified is set by the `labelName` option in `Sentry.wrap`. If no value is supplied, `sentry-label` will be used instead. If an element can't be identified, the transaction won't be captured.

```js
export default Sentry.wrap(App, { touchEventBoundaryProps: { labelName: 'my-label' } });
```

<Note>
If the UI transaction idled, but didn't have any child spans, it'll be dropped.
</Note>

> Because transactions are automatically bound to scope, you can create child spans using [manual instrumentation](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/#retrieve-a-transaction). Note that the `idleTimeoout` for running UI transactions defaults to `1000` milliseconds (one second).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because transactions are automatically bound to scope, you can create child spans using [manual instrumentation](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/#retrieve-a-transaction). Note, that the `idleTimeoout` for running UI transactions defaults to `1000` milliseconds (one second).
```

## Gesture Events

> To create UI transactions from React Native Gesture Handler, you need to wrap individual gestures using `sentryTraceGesture`. This will also automatically create breadcrumbs. The wrapper `sentryTraceGesture(label, gesture)` accepts `string` label that uniquely identifies the gesture in a screen and the gesture object being wrapped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create UI transactions from React Native Gesture Handler, you need to wrap individual gestures using `sentryTraceGesture`. This will also automatically create breadcrumbs. The wrapper `sentryTraceGesture(label, gesture)` accepts `string` labels that uniquely identify the gesture in a screen as well as the gesture object being wrapped.
```

---
title: User Interaction Instrumentation
sidebar_order: 20
sdk: sentry.javascript.react-native

description: "Learn what kind of user interaction can be captured"
---

The UI instrumentation, once enabled, captures transactions and adds breadcrumbs for touch interactions. Gesture support using React Native Gesture Handler is available using the `traceGesture` wrapper. 

## Touch Events

The SDK composes the transaction name from the name of a displayed screen (for example `LoginScreen`) and a label of the element user interacted with (for example `login_button`).

> If the element doesn't have `sentry-label` or a user-defined label, the transaction won't be captured.

Reviewer 2: This is also mentioned on line 42. Should this be a note?

Author: I've removed the duplicity. I don't think it needs to be a note but for sure it should not repeat.

<Note>
Capturing UI transactions requires that you first set up <Link to="/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#enable-routing-instrumentation">routing instrumentation</Link> if you haven't already.
</Note>

The UI instrumentation tracing is disabled by default, but you can enable it by setting the `enableUserInteractionTracing` options to `true` and wrapping your root component.

```js
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/react-native'

Sentry.init({
  // ...
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.ReactNativeTracing({
      enableUserInteractionTracing: true,
      routingInstrumentation,
      // ...
    }),
  ],
})

const App = () => <View>Your App</View>

export default Sentry.wrap(App)
```

> The label by which UI elements are identified is set by `labelName` option in `Sentry.wrap`. If no value is supplied `sentry-label` is used. If an element can't be identified the transaction won't be captured.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The label by which UI elements are identified is set by the `labelName` option in `Sentry.wrap`. If no value is supplied, `sentry-label` will be used instead. If an element can't be identified, the transaction won't be captured.

```

```js
export default Sentry.wrap(App, { touchEventBoundaryProps: { labelName: 'my-label' } });
```

<Note>

> If the UI transaction has idled, but didn't have any child spans added, it will be dropped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the UI transaction idled, but didn't have any child spans, it'll be dropped.
```

</Note>

> Transactions are always bound to the Scope automatically if there's none set. Because of that, you can create spans using [manual instrumentation](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/#retrieve-a-transaction), and those spans will be automatically associated with the running UI transaction. The `idleTimeoout` defaults to `1000` milliseconds (one second).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because transactions are automatically bound to scope if no spans are set, you can create spans using [manual instrumentation](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/#retrieve-a-transaction), which will automatically associate those spans with the running UI transaction. Note that the `idleTimeoout` for running UI transactions defaults to `1000` milliseconds (one second).

```
This section is a bit difficult for me to understand. Are transactions bound automatically to scope if no spans are set or are they bound automatically if no scope is set? What happens if it is set? Also, not making a clear connection as to why that means that you can create spans using manual instrumentation. It could just be that I am unfamiliar with the concept, but just wanted to bring it up in case you feel we could add some additional context.

Author: Thanks for pointing it out. I've simplified it, what do you think? Is it okay like this? @lizokm 

```suggestion
Because transactions are automatically bound to scope, you can create child spans using [manual instrumentation](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/#retrieve-a-transaction). Note that the `idleTimeoout` for running UI transactions defaults to `1000` milliseconds (one second).
```

## Gesture Events

> To create UI transactions from React Native Gesture Handler you need to wrap the gestures using `traceGesture`. This will also automatically create breadcrumbs from the gestures. 

Reviewer 2: Is it obvious what `traceGesture` is? It's mentioned above that it's a wrapper? Does that have/need additional documentation?

Reviewer: I think it would be beneficial to add a bit more explanation.

> To create UI transactions from React Native Gesture Handler you need to wrap the gestures using `traceGesture`. This will also automatically create breadcrumbs from the gestures. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create UI transactions from React Native Gesture Handler, you need to wrap individual gestures using `traceGesture`. This will also automatically create breadcrumbs. 
```

<Note>
Only <Link to="https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-gesture-handler/docs/api/gestures/gesture">RNGH API v2</Link> is supported.
</Note>

> For gesture composition, the individual gestures need to be wrapped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
We might not need this line if we add the word "individual" above?
